
Timing service - 20-12-05 jbk

 Initial version.  It prints one record per module and per event that
 indicates how long that step took.  There is no currently no configuration.
 The report is not going out to the logger yet, mainly because of the 
 ugly output format.
 The framework does not give callbacks for start path / end path yet.
 When is does, this thing should sum the times across all modules that
 executed in that path (even if they did not run because they ran in an
 earlier path) and report that time for the path.
 No summaries are being kept now either.  Histograms would be nice
 (per module or across all events).  A big listing of total times spent
 in each module/path would also be nice.

Simple Profiling service - 10-03-06 jbk

 Initial version.  This was put together fairly quickly from
 other pieces of code so the files are not well organized.
 I am viewing this as a trial version of this service.
 The connection to functions in
 ProfParse.cc is particularly bad.  The stack decoding from the interrupt
 routine is still faultly, but I am making it available anyway.  Use of
 a standard package for this job may be easier (libunwind for example from
 HP). Here are some of the known defects: (0) it only works under Linux,
 (1) sometimes the caller of the
 interrupted function is missing from the recorded call stack; it seems
 to occur when the caller is very, very small but the real reason has not
 yet been determined, (2) sometimes the recorded function address in the 
 stack is recorded as 0 (zero); this also has not been figured out, and 
 (3) the thread-specific, virtual  interval timers appear to not 
 function in the 2.4 kernel and I did not test using the 2.6 kernel, this
 means that the profiling is targeted towards one thread only. 
 Dispite its flaws, it still points out useful things about where the
 program is spending its time.  All these things need to be fixed (or
 replaced by another tool) and I ran out of development time.  Another
 gross thing is that the profiler source files have the posix realtime
 extension switch activated so the signal handler get the extra context
 argument.

 You activate this thing by putting "service = SimpleProfiling { }"
 into your configuration script (for cmsRun).  The output at the end
 of the job explains the names and formats of the output files (they
 are text).  If graphviz is installed, you can run the script in the
 Services/bin directory called ProduceGraph.sh to create a postscript
 file of a call graph starting from any function (by ID) of interest.
 I will provide useful documentation of this script if people find the
 tool useful. 

