// $Id: NotSoUrgentIssues.txt,v 1.3 2009/06/10 15:22:14 dshpakov Exp $

This file shall collect items which should be addressed at some point
during the re-factoring process, but which are not urgent or not
possible to be done now.


- Doxygen documentation for StateMachine
The current comments are not recognized by doxygen. In addition, the
methods should be documented, too.


- Improve handling of XMLString in XHTMLMaker (from Marc):
There is one that is both repeated many times and is ugly: the XMLCh
pointer returned by a call to XMLString::transcode (called from _xs)
must be given to XMLString::release when one is done using it. This is
a terrible interface, and unfortunately means one must litter code
with calls to XMLString::release, or one must make a helper class to
handle it automatically. My first attempt to do so failed because of
the circular conversions that seemed to be needed. Perhaps with a more
rested brain, some cleaner solution will become obvious. But for now,
the code works in the way Dennis designed it to work, and the tests
pass, and valgrind raised no (Xerces-C++ related) complaints.  


- Move to XDAQ_INSTANTIATOR macros (see bottom of StorageManager.cc)
This will break backwards compatibility as the configuration(s) need to
be changed.


- Use caching for web pages?
Idea from Dennis: do not regenerate the web page for each request, but
employ some caching. Need to find balance btw overhead to create the
webpage and the requirement to have current data.


- Consider to use boost::unordered_map instead of std::map
This will be available from boost 1.38 onwards. unordered_map is the
upcoming Standard's name for a hashmap.


- Include more information in the consumer registration message or
data inside the SM (e.g. initial run number) so that we can definitively
tell a consumer that it should disconnect and reregister because its
registration is stale (or has been reused).


- Move consumer registration data out of the serialized parameter set
and into the registration message so that we aren't bothered by which
parameters are tracked and untracked.


- Replace sprintf calls in various files with the C++ way.
